hi i'm jim winner from the Wexner
Medical Center at The Ohio State
University and today we're going to talk
about a one-pot minestrone soup which is
about a 20-minute soup it's high in
protein it's a little bit lower in fat a
little bit lower in sodium and it's a
great soup takes about 20 minutes is
about 6 ingredients and the beauty of
this is it really only takes one pot to
make this entire batch of soup what
we're gonna do is we're gonna add some
low sodium low fat chicken broth to the
pan like this we've got about a quart in
here and the thing that you really want
to look at is when you're looking at the
nutrient information or the back of the
container this has about 420 milligrams
of sodium so if we were to get the
regular chicken broth it would have 840
milligrams of sodium per portion the
average amount of sodium the standard
today is 2,000 milligrams per day so if
you eat one cup of soup you're really
about there halfway there already so
that's one of the reasons that we went
with the low sodium and fat free broth
we're gonna let this cook and actually
bring this to a real quick boil now
while we're waiting for that to boil
we're gonna talk about some of the meat
that we're putting in here we're using
chicken tenderloin which is a little
more expensive but the great thing about
chicken tenderloin is a cooks very
quickly it's very low fat and when you
add it to your soup it adds some flavor
to your broth as well the other
ingredients that we have that make it
simple we've got a mixed frozen
vegetable which is which has green beans
some corn and some carrot or carrots in
here we have a whole wheat pasta that
we're add to that we've got some fresh
spinach that we're gonna finish this off
with and we have Parmesan Reggiano
cheese and the Parmesan Reggiano cheese
somewhat compensates for the salt that
you'll put in the soup and then we're
gonna season it with black pepper real
simple to make now we've got the the
broth has already moved and you can tell
by the the way the broth is starting to
stir around a little bit that it is
moving so when it had our chicken
tenderloins to the broth and what we're
going to do is let these cool
and you're gonna let these cook till
they're no longer pink in the center for
about five or six minutes we're gonna
put these in here and let them go so
we've got the chicken tenderloins that
are already cooking in the broth they
took about four or five minutes and the
thing that's great about using these
because there's no bones in here very
little connective tissue they cook very
very quickly what we're gonna do is
we're going to take the chicken
tenderloins
out of the broth tomorrow we're taking
these out and we're gonna let them cool
then we're gonna chop them we're gonna
put them right back into the soup while
these are sitting here kollene we're
gonna add the whole-wheat pasta in this
case reason penne pasta which really
works well it's a whole grain pasta and
this holds up well in the soup and
actually is about the same size of the
chicken meat which is really what you
want you wouldn't want to use a larger
size pasta or a smaller size pasta you
want the food in the soup or any dish
you make to look assistant in size so
we're gonna have the pasta stir that
around a bit we're gonna add our veggies
we're gonna let these cook for about 12
minutes and the pan is still very very
hot because we had boiled the chicken
breast in here or the chicken
tenderloins now we're gonna let this
cook for about 12 minutes and we'll chop
the chicken tenderloins we're gonna add
that back to the soup and we're almost
done
so we're gonna go ahead and chop up the
chicken tenderloins and again these are
cooked completely and if you look how
easy these chopped and how great they're
going to taste in this soup it's gonna
be delicious
so what we'll do with these chicken
tenders is while everything else is
cooking we're gonna add these back into
the soup not only they're gonna add some
flavor they're gonna add some depth to
the soup as well and again you want to
handle these when you're able to handle
them you don't want to handle them when
they're super super hot or you're gonna
end up burning yourself but you really
don't want to do take our chicken I'm
gonna add this to our soup
and you can tell already the soup looks
great because it's got a lot of color
it's got a lot of texture to it you've
got the pasta noodles in here you've got
the the frozen vegetables and then you
have the chicken in here so there's a
lot of things going for this soup that
makes it really really good plus it's
low-sodium the soup has been cooking for
about eight minutes right now and the
noodle the reason today is a whole wheat
noodle this is about ready to go the
noodles themselves are about al dente
which means firm to the bite so we're
gonna go ahead you see the soup it's
getting to a good boil we're to go ahead
and add our fresh spinach you can use
frozen spinach in this recipe as well
but I prefer to use fresh spinach
actually this spinach here when you see
when we add this to soup that's gonna
end up in to next to nothing because
spinach really contracts when it cooks
we're gonna go ahead and add this to the
soup and if you like spinach you can
always add more to it so you can see
this soup looks great lots of color in
the soup which is really what you want
with your food because we tend to eat
with our eyes and if you see the colors
that we have here the Greens the yellows
the oranges it's just beautiful looking
soup and again it takes very very little
time to prepare this product today so
right now the spinach is actually ready
to go we're going to turn off the flame
take a little bit of black pepper and
I'm going to season this with black
pepper
okay the soup is ready to go okay we're
gonna go ahead we've got this nice
looking soup dish here I'm gonna go
ahead and add this to the bowl
okay here's roughly about 18 ounces of
soup lots of color we're gonna have some
Parmesan Reggiano Reggiano cheese to
this as well and we've got a really
good-looking soup
you